This project was designed to answer the following question:

"I want to understand whether customers who make more than 1 purchase in the first month of their first purchase, perform better as customers than all other customers. For example, if Jenny purchased something on February 15th, and then again on March 1st, and February 15th was the first time she had ever purchased anything, she would fall into this special group because her 2nd purchase was within 30 days of her first purchase. Customers who do not meet this criteria would be considered the control group, or the group that we compare these special customers against."

The SQL querry I wrote handles this question perfectly.  I started by grouping by each customer and date, to ensure that any orders made on the same day would be grouped together, and not counted as separate transactions.  I then used window functions to determine the first purchase date of each customer, and put the first and second dates of purchases on the same row so they cou.  I used the DATEDIFF() function to determine how many days were between the first and second purchases and then used a CASE statement to sort each customer into it's appropriate group.  I then joined this new table (containing just the customer ID and new group type from the CASE statement) back to the original table to add the new group for each customer.  Having the original dataset, I grouped by the month, year, and group to create a full table containing the average sales revenue earned from each customer in each customer type in each month.  In other words, my final chart compares the average amount that each customer spends each month, depending on which group they are in.

I exported these final results (which are shown as a .csv file in this repository folder) to Power BI.  I created a very simple Power BI dashboard showcasing which group spent more money on average.  It is important to remember that these are averages that are being compared, not sums.  These charts can be found as an image as a .png, or in the Power BI file.  My conclusion for this project is that there is no significant difference between customers that make more than one purchase in their first month as a customer compared to those who do not.  It is not worth taking extra action to specifically target more first month purchases from this company's customers.

_**Important note:**_ _I did not use any AI in the completion of this project.  This was completed entirely using my own skills and knowledge to showcase my proficiency in SQL and Power BI._
